Add docs on geolocation (#219)
getsentry/develop: src/docs/self-hosted/geolocation.mdx

---
title: 'Self-Hosted Geolocation'
---

Sentry can use [MaxMind's free GeoLite2 database](https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/geoip2/geolite2/) to geolocate IP addresses, providing additional context for error events where the end-user's IP address is known, as well as for the session history of users logging into your Sentry installation. Our self-hosted offering bundles MaxMind's [`geoipupdate`](https://hub.docker.com/r/maxmindinc/geoipupdate) tool for initially downloading and periodically updating this dataset. To enable this functionality, you should [sign up for a free MaxMind account](https://www.maxmind.com/en/geolite2/signup), and then tell Sentry about your credentials via environment variables.

```shell
export GEOIPUPDATE_ACCOUNT_ID="012345"
export GEOIPUPDATE_LICENSE_KEY="foobar"
```

By default, self-hosted instances are configured to refresh the GeoLite2 database when the `geoipupdate` service first starts, and weekly thereafter. You can change the update frequency with an additional override:

```shell
export GEOIPUPDATE_ACCOUNT_ID="012345"
export GEOIPUPDATE_LICENSE_KEY="foobar"

> export GEOIPUPDATE_FREQUENCY="24" # hours

Reviewer: For this to work, [this line](https://github.com/getsentry/onpremise/pull/766/files#diff-e45e45baeda1c1e73482975a664062aa56f20c03dd9d64a827aba57775bed0d3R134) should not define the value and the default value should be defined in the `.env` file.

Author: Ah, right. Vestige of `docker-compose.override.yml`. Updated over in the `onpremise` PR.

---
title: 'Self-Hosted Geolocation'
---

> Sentry can use [MaxMind's free GeoLite2 database](https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/geoip2/geolite2/) to geolocate IP addresses, providing additional context for error events where the end-user's IP address is known, as well as for the session history of users logging into your Sentry installation. Our on-premise offering bundles MaxMind's [`geoipupdate`](https://hub.docker.com/r/maxmindinc/geoipupdate) tool for initially downloading and periodically updating this dataset. To enable this functionality, you should sign up for [a free MaxMind account](https://www.maxmind.com/en/geolite2/signup), and then tell Sentry about your credentials via a [`docker-compose.override.yml`](https://docs.docker.com/compose/extends/#understanding-multiple-compose-files) file, like so:

Reviewer: Nitz:
```suggestion
Sentry can use [MaxMind's free GeoLite2 database](https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/geoip2/geolite2/) to geolocate IP addresses, providing additional context for error events where the end-user's IP address is known, as well as for the session history of users logging into your Sentry installation. Our self-hosted offering bundles MaxMind's [`geoipupdate`](https://hub.docker.com/r/maxmindinc/geoipupdate) tool for initially downloading and periodically updating this dataset. To enable this functionality, you should [sign up for a free MaxMind account](https://www.maxmind.com/en/geolite2/signup), and then tell Sentry about your credentials via a [`docker-compose.override.yml`](https://docs.docker.com/compose/extends/#understanding-multiple-compose-files) file, like so:
```

Also, re `docker-compose.override.yml`: let's take it slow and encourage these env variables for now instead?

```yaml
version: '3.4'
services:
  geoipupdate:
    environment:
      GEOIPUPDATE_ACCOUNT_ID: 012345
      GEOIPUPDATE_LICENSE_KEY: foobar
```

> By default, `onpremise` is configured to refresh the GeoLite2 database when the `geoipupdate` service first starts, and weekly thereafter. You can change the update frequency with an additional override:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, self-hosted instances are configured to refresh the GeoLite2 database when the `geoipupdate` service first starts, and weekly thereafter. You can change the update frequency with an additional override:
```

---
title: 'Self-Hosted Geolocation'
---

> Sentry can use [MaxMind's free `GeoLite2-City` database](https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/geoip2/geolite2/) to geolocate IP addresses, providing additional context for error events where the end-user's IP address is known, and for the session history of users logging into your Sentry installation. We bundle MaxMind's [`geoipupdate`](https://hub.docker.com/r/maxmindinc/geoipupdate) tool for this purpose. To enable IP address geolocation, [sign up for a free MaxMind account](https://www.maxmind.com/en/geolite2/signup), and then tell Sentry about your credentials by placing your MaxMind configuration file at `geoip/GeoIP.conf`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sentry can use [MaxMind's free `GeoLite2-City` database](https://dev.maxmind.com/geoip/geoip2/geolite2/) to geolocate IP addresses, providing additional context for error events where the end user's IP address is known and for the session history of users logging into your Sentry installation. We bundle MaxMind's [`geoipupdate`](https://hub.docker.com/r/maxmindinc/geoipupdate) tool for this purpose. To enable IP address geolocation, [sign up for a free MaxMind account](https://www.maxmind.com/en/geolite2/signup), then tell Sentry about your credentials by placing your MaxMind configuration file at `geoip/GeoIP.conf`.
```

```
AccountID 012345
LicenseKey foobarbazbuz
EditionIDs GeoLite2-City
```

> With this configuration file in place, subsequent runs of Sentry's `install.sh` will refresh the IP address geolocation database, and the next time you restart your self-hosted Sentry instance (the `relay` and `web` services, in particular), you should start seeing the latest data. Here's how to confirm that it's working:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With this configuration file in place, subsequent runs of Sentry's `install.sh` will refresh the IP address geolocation database. The next time you restart your self-hosted Sentry instance (the `relay` and `web` services, in particular), you should start seeing the latest data. Here's how to confirm that it's working:
```

> 1. For the `relay` service: Dashboards > Errors by Country should have some purple on it.

Reviewer 2: Bold the path to describe navigation:
```suggestion
1. For the `relay` service: **Dashboards > Errors by Country** should have some purple on it.
```

> 1. For the `web` service: User Settings > Security > Session History should show country code and region (e.g., "US (CA)") underneath the IP addresses in the table.

Reviewer 2: And please avoid Latin terms
```suggestion
1. For the `web` service: **User Settings > Security > Session History** should display country code and region (for example, "US (CA)") underneath the IP addresses in the table.
```
